(Note to Self: Be careful while making the swap function, always assign 'temp' to the first variable at the end !!)

Q1. Missing Number:
SOL:
        Approach: O(N)
        Use Cyclic Sort on the array. As the range in array is (0, n) we know arr[index] = index.
        Using this, we sort the array and then perform a linear search to return the array index which
        does not contain expected element.
        If all numbers are at expected index, we return the next number that is, the length of the 0-index
        array.
        The swapping for sort is performed only when an element does not match its index and the correct
        index is not out of array bounds.
        Else we just increment index to check next element

Q2. Find All Numbers Disappeared in Array:
SOL:
        Approach: O(N)
        The approach stays the same except, the range is (1, n) so correct index = arr[index] - 1 and this time
        there is no chance of correct index being out of bounds.
        As few numbers are missing and the array length is still 'n', there are multiple duplicate elements in
        the array. However, we do not need to pay heed to them and simply apply cyclic sort as even if we
        encounter duplicates and one duplicate already being correctly place, we will just ignore the current one.
        Thus, all other elements except the duplicates will get sorted and those indexes which contain the
        duplicates are the ones whose correct element has disappeared.
        We then simply apply linear search and return index + 1 for all indices not having their correct element.
        Note: In this case the condition that decides whether we need to swap or increment the pointer must be,
              arr[i] == arr[arr[i] - 1] and NOT just arr[i] = i + 1 ...
              This is because there can be duplicate elements instead of required numbers inside the array and in
              those cases the later condition will create an infinite loop.

Q3. Find the Duplicate Number:
SOL:
        By not being able to modify the array, the question means we cannot modify the elements
        However, we can still apply sorting

        Approach: O(N)
        Cyclic Sort will be applied exactly same as the above problem.
        In this problem, as there is only one (not 'one' in quantity but 'one' in identity) duplicate, all the
        elements except the duplicate will get sorted. (e.g: [2, 2, 2, 2, 2] is valid as only 2 has duplicates)
        Thus, this will make the duplicate swap to the last index of the array as its correct index is already
        full.
        We then simply return the element at index = arr.length - 1

Q4. Find All Duplicates in an Array
SOL:
        Approach: O(N)
        The question can potentially misguide us to sort the array in an ascending order including ALL elements
        i.e. also including the duplicates.
        However, we just need to apply simple cyclic sort for 1 to N while ignoring duplicates
        After that we run a linear search and for those indices which still do not have their correct elements,
        we return the elements at those indices, thereby finding each and all of the duplicates.

Q5. Set Mismatch
SOL:
        Approach: O(N)
        In this problem we apply cyclic sort and return both the duplicate number and its index + 1

Q6. First Missing Positive
SOL:
        Approach: O(N)
        The smallest positive integer is 1, thus we ignore all negatives and zeros.
        The interval in the array not beginning from 1 will have the possibility of the correct index being
        out of bounds, thus we ignore all of such elements and then perform cyclic sort.
        As the array is now sorted 1 to n, for the first index which does not have the correct element,
        we return index + 1.
        In case there are no missing elements inside the array, we consider the element that should have
        appeared if the array was one size longer. (arr[arr.length - 1] + 1)
        Note: In above case we can also return arr.length + 1, because if there are negative elements or
              zero present in the array, the answer will be returned in the loop.
              The above case will only come into existence when we have an array starting from value 1
              and which has no missing integers. In such a case we can return both arr[arr.length - 1] + 1
              or arr.length + 1, as the final answer.