
Why Use HashMaps?
    To retrieve required objects in constant time. O(1)

How it works (on the surface)?
    Stores key-value pairs in a tabular structure.
    When a key is provided to the HashMap, it returns the corresponding value from the table.

Real-World Implementations:
    Compilers, Interpreters -> To point names to variables
    Network Routers -> Routing IP Addresses
    Virtual to Physical Memory Conversions
    String searching -> grep command

How it works Internally?
    When added to the HashMap, any type of key input (object) will be converted to a unique number using some
    formula.
    When we again search for this same object, the HashMap will use the same formula to turn that object into
    a number. If this object is the same as the one added previously, the unique number will also be the same.
    Suppose we are storing elements internally, in an Object array and the unique numbers are actually the
    indices for objects to be stored in the array.
    When the unique number of the same object is encountered again as an index, the array index this time will
    not contain null element, as an Object would have already been added at that place.
    And if it is not null, then HashMap will simply return that Object in constant time using the unique index
    as accessing array elements using indices takes constant time O(1).
    Thus, HashMap can be considered as a table, containing unique keys to identify and retrieve elements in
    constant time.

    - Hash Code: (The unique number)
    'Hash Code' function (the formula) will be used to convert an 'Object' input into a Hash Code which is a
    positive integer. This is the unique 'key' that we will use for accessing table values.
    The generated hash code however, can be very large.
    To reduce the size we use 'Hashing'.

    - Hashing & Collisions: (Fitting unique number in constant size representation)
    This technique will be used to reduce Hash Codes to a particular size.
    To reduce the size of the generated Hash Code we can:
    Eg: Take mod10 of the number -
        3578, 3989, 1893 ->   8, 9, 3
        However, if we have another value: 3988 then 3988 % 10 -> 8
        Thus, 3988 collides with 3578 when we take modulo 10
    This phenomenon is called as 'Collision' and there are ways to resolve it.

    - Collision Handling:
      a) Chaining - (When load-factor is very high, uncommon method)
         At every element index in the array, there is a linked list.
         If a collision occurs for a particular index, we simply create a new node at the end and add the new
         element inside that new end node.
         When looking up the index we again traverse the linked list and compare the linked list elements
         with our current search object, if a match is found we return the value.

         However, in a possible worst case, if the modulo of every hash code (possibly with array size as divisor)
         is the same index number then we have to perform a linear search on the linked list that will take O(N)
         time. Eg: Array size is 10, and we get inputs like 3, 13, 23, 33, ... (all load on index 3)

         This worst case is further handled by making assumptions about the complexity using the 'load-factor' in
         'Simple Uniform Hashing' where any given element is equally likely to hash into any of the 'm' slots.

         Load Factor (alpha) -
            alpha = n / m, where n -> No. of keys to map in the table
                                 m -> Size of the table.
            Also, the size of 'alpha' ideally should not be greater than '1' and for that the size of table 'm'
            should always be greater than 'n' (m >= n).
            This is because, if 'n < m' then we know from the start that collision is inevitable which we
            want to avoid.

            The complexity of searching thus becomes O(1 + alpha) and if alpha is constant (amortized) then
            we can say:
            O(1 + alpha) -> O(1), which is constant time searching.

            There can be dynamic key insertions in the table which will affect the size 'm' as well as the
            hashing function that maps the keys to table indices. How this affects the table and hashing and
            how it is handled is discussed later below...

         The methods to create hashing functions using 'Simple Uniform Hashing' include:

         i) Division Method: (Faster)
            h(k) = k % m
            where, k is the hash code
                   m is the size of the array (inefficient)
                OR m is a large prime number (not too close to powers of 2 or 10 as they are common)

         ii) Multiplication Method: (Slower but 'm' can be any value)
            h(k) = ((a * k) % pow(2, w)) >> (w - r)
            where, k is the hash code
                   a is random number
                   w is number of bits in k
                   r = log2(m)
                   '>>' is the right shift operator

         There is also a formula of 'Universal Hashing' where a large prime number and 2 random numbers are used
         and it gives us only 0.1 % (or 1 / size) probability of collision and it can be used in conjunction with
         Chaining for further improvement:
            h(k) = ((a * k + b) % p) % m
            where a ∈ {1, 2, ..., p-1} and b ∈ {0, 1, ..., p-1}, where p is prime and larger than the largest key.
         This is just one of the candidate hash functions that meet the criteria set by 'Universal Hashing' and
         are used by Hash Functions.

         (More about Simple Uniform Hashing and Universal Hashing in 'Crucial Q&A')

         The size 'm' of the table -
            Given a finite space table and certain number of keys, if we want to apply chaining we also need to
            determine the size 'm' of the table. (Which is later used in formulas for hashing)

            The best practice is -> m = Theta(n), where 'n' is the number of keys, thus we take the average of the
                                    number of keys as table size.

            If 'm' is too big than space is wasted and if 'm' is small then the table search will be slow.
            Thus, idea is to start small, and then grow.
            We can increase table size by doubling it each time the table is small. (getting amortized linear time
            complexity, similar to internal implementation concept of ArrayLists)
            Thus, as inserting 'n' elements will take about O(N) time then for single element insertion we take
            on average O(1) time.

      b) Open Addressing - (Commonly used in algorithms)
         Only one item per slot. (No Chaining)
         Thus, table size always has to be greater than or equal to number of items/keys.

         Here, we use the 'probing' method.
         If certain index is already occupied, we look for another location which will be somehow linked to the
         current location. This process is continued till an empty location is found and the element is then added.
         This is known as 'probing'.
         When trying to delete an element while using this method, since any location can serve as a link to other
         occupied locations, we just add some kind of 'delete' flag at the current location to be deleted. In this
         way, even though no element exists at that location, the link to other ones in its probing path is not
         severed.

         Two types of probing methods:

         i) Linear Probing - (Most common)
            The next index to be jumped at is calculated as:
                h(k, i) = (h(k) + i) % m
                where, h(k) is the generated hash code using hash function
                       i is the current location index
                       m is the size of the array/table/structure
                       h(k, i) gives index 'i' of next location

            Problem: 'Primary Clustering', where a cluster of occupied contiguous memory is formed and the
            other locations inside the memory are not fully utilized. (less spread)

         ii) Quadratic Probing:
            Quadratic probing is attempt to fix this ... instead of reprobing linearly, QP "jumps" around
             the table according to a quadratic function of the probe, for example:

                h(k, i) = (h(k) + c1 * i + c2 * pow(i, 2)) % m,
                where c1 and c2 are constants.

            Problem: 'Secondary Clustering', although primary clusters across sequential runs of table
            positions don't occur, two keys with the same h may still have the same probe sequence,
            creating clusters that are broken across the same sequence of "jumps".

         iii) Double Hashing:
            h(k, i) = (h1(k) + h2(k) * i) % m,
            where, the definition of repeating symbols is same as above
                   h1(k) is a generated hash code
                   h2(k) must be relatively prime to 'm' (relatively prime means they have no factors in common
                   other than 1) for all 'k' to guarantee that the probe sequence is a full permutation of
                   ⟨0, 1, ... m-1⟩.
                   Two approaches:
                       - Choose m to be a power of 2 and h2 to always produce an odd number > 1.
                       - Let m be prime and have 1 ≤ h2(k) < m.
                   There are Θ(m ^ 2) different probe sequences, since each possible combination of h1(k) and h2(k)
                   gives a different probe sequence. This is an improvement over linear or quadratic hashing.

      - Use Open Addressing:
         Better cache performance (no pointers used)

      - Use Chaining:
         Less sensitive to hash functions

    - Common use of hash:
        In Digital Signatures. (Integrity)
        For matching entered password's hashes with pre-existing password hashes in database. (Authentication)

    - Hash values are not stored in a sorted order, the order is random.

Some important Java's Implementation of Hashes:

    ...Set -> (Implements the 'Set' interface)
    ...Map -> (Implements the 'Map' interface)

    1) HashSet:
    A set that stores only unique values. Can be used to check for earlier instances of particular element or get
    all unique values from a data structure.
    The comparison and instance check is done through the matching of hash values.

    2) HashMap: (Most Commonly Used)
    To successfully store and retrieve objects from a HashMap, the objects used as keys must implement
    the .hashCode method and the .equals method.
    Stores <Key, Value> pairs where we provide any object that is treated as key and gets converted to a
    We can then retrieve the value, delete the key or update the value inside the HashMap.
    HashMap allows one null key and any number of null values.
    It is non-synchronized (no thread safety).


    3) HashTable: (Extends the 'Dictionary' class)
    To successfully store and retrieve objects from a Hashtable, the objects used as keys must implement
    the .hashCode method and the .equals method.
    Generated HashCode from key is then used to store the provided value in the table after hashing.
    We can then retrieve the value, delete the key or update the value inside the Hashtable.
    Does not allow any null key and also doesn't allow any null values.
    It is synchronized (has thread safety).

    4) TreeMap:
    Though the operations and features mostly stay the same, the internal implementation is different.
    It is used to store the items in the table in a 'sorted' order which isn't the case for classic
    HashMaps.

    Others (can be understood from Docs): SortedMap, LinkedHashMap, LinkedHashSet, ConcurrentHashMap....


The Rabin Karp Algorithm for String Matching (based on Hashing):


